<center><h2>Entry 1</h2></center>
<p>I think I will probably keep this alongside a journal for another game, I'm just starting with this one because I think it needs to be remade from scratch. The other one I already started to remake from scratch, but it was so long ago (although I think after I came to Germany?) that it will definitely need a lot of redesigning which hopefully doesn't necessitate too much refactoring. I wish I had learned how to design stuff properly before literally last semester, I think even just having good notes/laid out visually/keeping history but updating what's most current would have allowed me to actually keep track of all the elements going on in these games.</p>
<p>Tonight I will flesh out the Miro board (currently have three sections: repo link, two A4 pages for documentation, and kanban) and probably try to copy over my old code into a more scalable thing. I think I remember storing all my locations and transitions in an array of dictionaries or something? That's not how you make a graph... I'll consider better ways. I mean, it's just python, I can just make a class that behaves like a node in a graph I guess. This quick creative prototyping is something I don't mind doing in code, and I think nobody will ever ask me to use AI for it (which I would refuse anyway) because I can probably write it just as fast.</p>
<p>I also realized I have an opportunity here to nail down a design/scope first and then program, which I have never done before. I think scalability has been an issue for me in the past (either not planning ahead, or going too far the other way and wasting time trying to make everything modular) and as I said the previous technical architecture was awful, so this... yeah anything will be a huge help.</p>
<center><h2>Entry 2 (06.07)</h2></center>
<p>I guess I should maybe try to structure these as weeks huh. Okay, this is the beginning of the work week July 6th.</p>
<p>I don't want to fall out of practice with journaling, but I did so much work on this prototype over the weekend it's hard to even pick it apart. I feel like this is a shortcoming of mine because I sometimes worry about implementation time, so I try to frontload the features I *might* need, but then I end up with a messy and bloated prototype. Did I need an inventory system in this game? Do I even like inventory puzzles? I'm not sure. I think they can work fine when balanced with other kinds of puzzles... the spatial puzzles like navigating to the waterfall feel "cleaner." I guess for disrupting the ritual it will probably be a good candidate for inventory puzzles.</p>
<p>You know what, I can design as if it's not there and if it doesn't work I can throw it out. (Good little series of notes for portfolio.)</p>
<p>On a completely different note, implementing this graph-based node system really got me thinking about what it must be like to learn code for game design by relying on AI as I know some of my peers do. If I didn't already know what a graph looks like and that it's super easy to implement that data structure in python, I think I would have gotten much more confused when I was deciding how to structure my code. It also got me thinking about the bridge between code and design: It might actually be a good selling point for myself as a designer that I'm not just tech-y but specifically computer sciencey, like, I had to learn discrete math and stuff at one point.</p>
<p>Maybe this will be the project that finally gets me to do all that puzzle research... play some IF games, play some point and click games, play more deductive crime solving games and analyze. Plus lots of reading about puzzle psychology, like I had wanted to do during the semester but ran out of time. (Puzzle design as level design (woodworm) vs. puzzle design as narrative design (simon the sorceror), does that mean anything.)</p>
<p>Today was also the last day of Finding The Game. We did a quick grading session (I mean, quick after I waited for everyone else to finish lmao) and then I got tofu bibimbap to celebrate my >90!! I was totally prepared to accept whatever grade I got, but I'm really happy to get recognition of my efforts, of course. I also got some useful feedback about pulling myself out of the design at various points to think about the potential viewer of my documentation. I fully agree with this, I think it's helpful not just for the obviously important future team communication/ work environment preparations reasons that were pointed out but also as a way of getting me even more out of my own perception of the design and looking more objectively at what's already there. I am really glad I decided to include that one page design and one page narrative thing, I mentioned I thought of doing a pitch instead of intended narrative, and I could have just done both. I think getting at the core of what's in the story, what's in the puzzles, what will the player enjoy (I hinted at this with the player experience section,) why should they care is good not just as a marketing thing but as a part of making art with a clear intention. It's a nice opportunity to bring in exercises from Michael's class too! And of course as a creator it's the icing on the cake to have something that you can say, hey, I made this, this is what it is. Finalizing the itch page is always so satisfying for that reason - and I even forgot to put it on the board this time because I was so far down the design rabbit-hole, haha. (The itch page for Caries could get an overhaul once the final narrative pieces are there and I switch it from 'in development' to 'published.' I'm still not sure how much I would want to give away, though... I only added some stuff about scope when my friend pointed out that she thought she was done after the UR game, which is also fine, the player can be done at any point, but there would be a lot more to see, playing it as a forced playtester probably also doesn't help there.)</p>
<p>I also got a concrete suggestion of adding a text-based walkthrough for the puzzles, which I like a lot. I do have it in the development timeline kind of, but why not just make it easy and make a walkthrough. I had also at one point considered recording my playthrough of the game, but I personally find it annoying to skim through videos. The text walkthrough would be a good solution.</p>
<p>I felt also in the discussion that it was a bit framed as like, sharing with the class better, and I agree that I found myself kind of not ever expecting the others in the class to understand or care about the topics of my research or the game itself. But maybe that's not giving them enough credit, I mean, I am passionate about my research and I think the game is doing some really interesting and cool things, so why wouldn't they be able to follow along with my work. Maybe I need to reignite a bit of that drive to share my work, to teach and be understood. I will come back to this again in a few weeks when I put the game in my portfolio.</p>
<p>A bit of a final self-estimation for myself, then. I think I did a really good job teaching myself about a lot of design topics. I started going into BA stuff. I (re)made a game. I chose ambitious challenges. I got in the habit of designing and documenting visually on Miro and journaling in a repository. I'm really pleased about my progress and hoping/feeling this is just the start of something really big for me in game design/narrative design/puzzle design. I agreed with the feedback that my work would have been better if I had gone in from an outsider's perspective in the documentation/overall design and intention at more points. I still have a hard time comparing myself to others in the class, I think it's really good that others actually did make new levels or iterate on past work that was more traditionally level design-y, and I didn't really do that. At least it shows that what I did was me, just like my slightly incomplete and at times weirdly sassy journal shows that it wasn't written by AI.</p>
<p>Will come back to journaling when I've done a little more design framework and set up some research challenges for myself on the miro board. Hey, fuck it, maybe I'll even steal the template, why not? In the meantime, since the rain stopped I'll go for a little walk (good for my brain) and go back home.</p>
<center><h2>Entry 3 (12.07)</h2></center>
<p>I reorganized my challenges and started researching mystery writing. I'm confident about starting here, but not 100% sure where to go next. I actually think maybe the interactive fiction route should come next, and understanding the puzzle angle can be part of that? Then I'm considering briefly looking into story worlds, since I think I will do at least a bit of worldbuilding, but then it will be extremely important to make the story consistent. I also will take the idea of social customs that the viewer already understands, like a feudal system and also defined gender roles and such, but then I can do a little bit of my own thing with it.</p>
<p>It's also hard because I keep having ideas for the story I have in my brain, but I think I should probably wait and have a better design to slot ideas into first.</p>
<p>I'm also thinking about how I storyboard ideas - I do like to sketch stuff out, but in a csp doc with layers is clearly not a good way to do it, as I feel compelled to just sketch the same thing over again with different ideas... maybe doing it on a bigger sketching app like that free whiteboard one I saw would help? I think there is something I can do there, merging my old way of drawing ideas with my new way of trying to have a design process.</p>
<center><h2>Post-challenge 1 reflections (13.07)</h2></center>
<p>As I wrote on Miro, this was my first time doing a challenge as a way to structure my out-of-class work. I think it was mostly successful.</p>
<p>My thoughts on this project are already so disorganized because I have more ideas for things to put in it, but I am really trying to forget about them when researching. One thing I realized while doing this challenge is that the narrative structure I had imagined would technically conflict with the structure of a whodunnit, because the player is interfering with the events as they happen... however, considering the meta-structure from loop to loop, the player does experience the crime as a whodunnit where they can gradually experience more of the past by learning how to access hidden information. This gives me a new idea for how to draw the game's structure.</p>
<p>Is this way of journaling as good? I mean, I am having a hard time organizing my thoughts. At least I can sort out my irrelevant asides here. So I guess it is good, because it's helping me sort ideas out.</p>
<center><h2>Post-challenge 2 reflections (17.07)</h2></center>
<p>The research for this one was interesting, because it was a lot of taking relevant snippets from the different sources and just collaging them together. I started with general puzzle stuff, then wasn't sure how much of it was applicable to adventure game puzzles, then I wasn't even sure what adventure game puzzles are much less *good* adventure game puzzles. I ended up with a few threads of thought: one is how to gate progress behind certain knowledge. I did this also in my last game, and it was one of the original inspirations for this game also, the idea that you're getting to see things in later loops that were happening all along but you wouldn't be able to access without knowing where to look. The problem is that it's easy for the player to just go everywhere if they know what all the locations are, but it's hard to not give the player all the locations' names because then the game would just be text-parser argument simulator.</p>
<p>I played two games for this, documented my playthroughs, and reverse-engineered, which was a good exercise. I'm still not sure I got all the relevant complexities of Sexy Brutale, maybe it would have been good not to generalize it to all the puzzles yet but to specifically diagram the first tutorial puzzle I played? Not sure.</p>
<p>In the end it also kind of became a different challenge. I didn't look at "adventure game" puzzles as I think of them - but then, I did look at a text parser game and a game that's clearly descended from point-and-click adventure games, down to being made by Double Fine. So I kind of did complete the assignment? (The assignment that I created for myself anyway so there are no consequences for failing)</p>
<p>The time loop structure is also interesting as a gameplay thing. I didn't realize until I happened to be watching that youtube video (not even for this! It was just playing in the background) that The Sexy Brutale also uses time looping for its puzzle information structure, and I needed to do a playthrough of that game anyway. (Will probably keep playing later, I just did one puzzle for this purpose.)</p>
<p>It didn't make it onto the Miro board because I realized it doesn't actually have text-adventure mechanics despite calling itself a text-adventure game but I also played a mystery interactive fiction thing that said in its summary, "Your eidetic memory is represented as your ability to reread all the text, your vast knowledge of the world is represented by your ability to use the internet, and your quick thinking is represented by your infinite amount of time to make choices" and I thought that was a great tagline for a text-based web-based decision-based mystery game.</p>
<p>A big breakthrough was realizing that I need to give the player some kind of immediate feedback whenever they complete any action that will effect a later event. I was validated to see that Sexy Brutale does this by skipping from the moment the murder plot is foiled to the direct result of that, the botched murder attempt.</p>
<p>Finally, I think the idea of investigating/stopping a murder could tie in really well to the original draw of "interactive fiction": Not puzzle solving, it's just about doing some action in a world that you think is built well enough to have that action achieve some certain effect. I think combining this with the gating by deduction idea can get me somewhere. I was also really inspired by Type Help having such a consistent format for its commands (completely separate from normal text adventure commands) that I was able to make the leap to find the final snippets with person 12 and person K.</p>
<p>Not sure if I will work on that or worldbuilding next, I'm tempted to do mechanics first because the worldbuilding will probably be fluffier and I have momentum going for the puzzle gating thing, but I do think that just writing a really solid description and getting some sources could be a productive use of that energy also (although then sometimes it turns into me just doing the challenge...)</p>